苍野茫茫，残阳独挂西山，一片黄绿色泽的乾草随风兴波。
Cang ye boundless, Sun single hung Sun, a yellow-green color of dry grass wave in the wind.



    陕北一带的阔野，平静如昔。
Area of Northern Shaanxi province wide, calm as ever.

一名中年汉子漫步草间，三个孩子跟在后头，
说说笑笑，没半刻停息。
A middle-aged man walking through grass, and three children behind, laughing and talking, not half a stop.



    那汉子踱步来回，停在一颗枯树下，忽然说道：「渊儿，你捡跟树枝，用剑
法跟你师兄练几招。
The man paced back and forth, stopped at a fallen tree limb down, suddenly said: "deep, when you pick up branches, sword brother practicing with you a few pointers.

」那三个孩子一听，知道又是练功的时间，两个十来岁的男
孩齐道：「是！
"The three children heard, know the practice time, Qi road, two teenage boys:" Yes! "

」

    年岁稍小的男孩捡了根长树枝，左手捏起剑诀，法度竟也甚是严谨。
"Slightly older little boy picked up the long branch, left hand picked the sword formula, testimonies was also very rigorous.

另一个
男孩站开步伐，吐了口气。
Another boy steps, spit out a sigh.

两童架式既定，旋及交上了手。
Two children established, spiral, hand in hand.

余下那孩子却还是八、
九岁的小女孩，蹦蹦跳跳地到那汉子跟前，眨眨眼睛，道：「爹，文师哥这几下，
就是指南剑了吗？
Rest the child is 8 or 9 years old little girl, bounce up to a man, winked and said, "Dad, shige this a few times, is to guide the sword yet?

实在没什么好看的。
There's nothing good on.

」那汉子拍拍小女孩的头，微笑道：「瑄
儿别胡说，乖乖看清楚师兄们的招数。
"The man patted the little girl on the head and smiled:" nonsense, said son, wants to see the seniors trick.

」

    但见持枝小童招招挑刺，力道甚微，方位却十分稳固，另一少年左掌右拳，
劲力却大得多，上击下劈，拳掌忽地调换，变化开阖，竟是极高明的功夫。
"But children move component, little strength, position is strong and another boy left his right fist, strength is much greater, under the top split and fist hand suddenly change, opening and closing, the Kung Fu is very clever.



    那汉子看了十来招，道：「好，停！
The man more than ten and said, "well, stop!

」

    两童各自收式，跑到汉子身边。
"Two children each received, ran to the man's side.

那汉子接过树枝，道：「渊儿，你刚才刺左
肩的这一招，后着施的不好。
The man took the branches, way: "deep, you just stab this resort to the left shoulder, the Baptist after bad.

该当如此转过剑锋，这般转刺……扬儿也是，如果
这一拳改打小腹，你师弟便要输……」

    小个男孩专心听着师父讲招，小女孩坐在草地上，仰望父亲又说又比，似乎
甚感有趣。
Should have turned the sword, so go stab ... ... Yang, too, if the blow to lower abdomen, your brother has to lose...... " Little boys listening to master strokes, the little girl sitting on the grass, looking up at his father and said, seems to be very interesting.

直到夕阳落尽，朗月在空，四人这才慢慢出了草原。
Until the sunset fall, long months in the air, four people slowly out of the prairies.



    如此日落月起，不知几多时光，来到这草原之上的，却只有三个人了。
So the Moon is up, I do not know how much time, came to the grasslands, but only three of them.

两个
小男孩已是神采飞扬的青年，身后的女孩也出落成了俏生生的少女。
The youth of the two little boys are in high spirits, behind girls grow into an enchanting girl.



    三人来到那颗孤立原野中的树下，停了下来。
Three people came to the isolated wilderness of trees, and stopped.

其时正当初夏，草木荣翠，却
是枝繁叶茂，并非枯树了。
When its summer, and Rong Cui, was flourishing, not dead.

树下一块坚石，简单地刻着「华玄清之墓」五个大字。
Under the tree a piece of flint, simply inscribed with "Tomb of the Hua Xuanqing" five characters.



    少女向石墓一拜，道：「爹，我们又来看您啦。
Girl to worship stone Tomb, way: "Dad, we came to see you.

」说着解开一袋米酒，尽数
淋在石上。
"Say unlock a bag of rice, all caught on the stone.

这少女便是墓下之人的独女华瑄，叶影摇曳下，见其眉目如画，体态
盈盈，当真是个十分容色的少女。
This girl is the Tomb under the people's only child, Hua said, leaves the shadow under the swaying, meimuruhua, body brimming when very countenance was a young girl.



    那两名青年便是这华玄清的门徒，师兄向扬已二十岁，剑眉星目，英姿飒爽，
师弟文渊才十七岁，还比华瑄大了两岁，面貌极是温文俊秀，望之风雅翩然，竟
似书生一般，浑无练家子的样子。
Two youths is the disciple of Xuan Qing China, brother to the young was 20 years old, eyebrows like scimitars, Star eyes, valiant, brother Wen Yuan was only 17 years old, two years older than China, said, face was gentle and handsome, looked elegant dancing, like scholar General, Hun family practice-free look.



    文渊朝墓一拜，说道：「师父在上，弟子和师兄、师妹今日便要起程，以师
传绝艺，管不平之事，请师父灵佑。
Wen Yuanchao grave worship, said: "on the master and disciple and brother, junior will have to leave today, shichuan roles, it tube unfair things, master spirit.

」向扬拍拍文渊肩头，笑道：「好啦好啦，
凭你现在这身功夫，也不用师父怎么保佑你了。
"Pat Yang Wen Yuan's shoulder and smiled:" well, OK, you now work, do not have to master how to bless you.

」又道：「咱们同门学艺，各有
所长，不过日后江湖上谈到我们这三号人物，会是如何，那是谁也不知道。
"Again:" we're of the same group, strengths, however, the political arena in the future when it comes to our third most, is how it is nobody knows.

每年
此日，我们便回到这里一聚，顺便看看那个没能发扬师父的遗训、铲奸除恶的，
便给师父磕上三百六十五个响头！
Each year this day, we come back together and see that failed to develop master's teachings, and raped and evil will give master's 365 head knock!

」

    华瑄拍手笑道：「向师哥，这可是你的主意罢？
"China, said clapping smiled:" courses, it was your idea?

到时候磕得头昏眼花，可别
赖皮！
Then knock have dizziness, don't be such a shameless!

」向扬哈哈大笑。
"Young laughed.

文渊微笑道：「师兄的本事最是厉害，看来多半是小弟
来磕头了。
Wen Yuan smiled: "senior skills are the most powerful, was the younger brother to kowtow.

」向扬一笑，道：「胡扯八道，咱们上路罢！
"To raise a smile, said:" waffling, we hit the road!

」

    三人离开学艺旧地，斜阳之下，分道扬镳。
"Three people leaving places, under the setting sun, go their separate ways.

这一番入了江湖，前途未知，便
待一年之后聚首再叙！
This into the rivers and lakes, the future is unknown, a year after together to Syria!



    向扬告别师弟师妹，一路东行。
Xiang Yang goodbye brother Shimei, eastbound.

他生性飞扬跳脱，一人独行，虽然偶感孤寂，
但当兴之所至，饮酒练拳，见得不平之事，便以拳头干预。
He has a flying leap, one person alone, make a lonely, but when the whim, drinking training, unfair things, then interventions to his fists.

他跟着师父华玄清最
久，见闻不少，一路上拳打土豪，脚踢恶吏，倒也没吃半点亏，毕竟他武功非同
小可，寻常恶徒却也敌他不过。
He followed the longest master Hua Xuanqing, stories, boxing all the way local tyrants, kick Eli, didn't take any losses, after all, his martial arts was serious, ordinary villains but is no match for him, but.



    这日来到赵县，夏日炎炎，向扬随意找了个凉亭休憩，解开酒袋，自顾自地
饮酒赏景。
The day of Zhao, the heat of summer, found to raise a gazebo open to unlock wine bags, drinking by themselves enjoying the scenery.

向北一望，只见一座石拱桥横河而建，造型甚是秀丽，当下向身旁一
个儒生样子的人问道：「老兄，这桥建得倒是好看，叫什么来着？
Look to the North and saw a stone arch bridge built Yokogawa, styling is beautiful, next to the side like a Confucian scholar who asked: "man, this bridge was built to look is good, what is it?

」那儒生道：
「这是赵州桥，乃隋代李春所建。
"The Confucian scholar:" this is the Zhaozhou bridge, built by Li chun of the Sui dynasty.

你瞧，这桥设计的可好，两端厚，中间薄，坡
度也小，桥上车马通行是方便的，船要行过桥下也不碍着。
You see, this bridge is designed well, thicker at both ends and thin in the Middle, the slope is also small, horse boarding pass bridge is a convenient, nor under the boat to row across the bridge.

这两端石拱嘛，各开
两个券洞，你道这叫什么？
The stone arches at both ends, the two tickets, what do you call it?

这即是敞肩拱，这一来的好处嘛……」

    向扬见他摇头晃脑，说个不停，当即哈哈笑道：「建个桥的名堂倒也不少。
This means that open shoulder humps, then what are the benefits of...... " Xiang Yang saw him shaking, kept talking, HA laughed: "lot of tricks to build a bridge.

」

    不去听他多说，走上了那石桥。
"Listen not to what he says on that bridge.

桥上栏板上各有雕刻，或山水人物，或龙虎
异兽，望柱也颇有花样，蟠龙、竹节、双宝珠，他虽然不懂，却也知道这些实是
精美之作。
Carved on the bar on the bridge plate, or landscape character, or Dragon-Tiger-animals, baluster designs, Beaulieu, bamboo, pair of pearls, though I don't know him, they know that these arguments are fine for.



    看得片刻，正要下桥，忽听远远传来阵阵马蹄。
Look for a moment, just under the bridge, they heard there were Horseshoe.

只听旁人纷纷叫嚷起来：「
强人来啦！
Just listen to others have clamored: "strongman here!

白虎寨的三大王！
White Tiger King of Zhai's three!

」桥上桥下众人尽皆失色，边叫边逃。
"They all shine under a bridge on the bridge, and fled.

向扬抽身离
桥，抓住那正要逃命的儒生，问道：「白虎寨是什么东西？
Xiang Yang away from the bridge, caught the escape of Confucian scholars, asked: "what White Tiger village is?

是这一带的山贼窝是
罢？
Is the den of thieves is the mountain?

」那儒生牙齿打战，道：「是……是是……」

    向扬笑道：「瞧你怕的，也罢，是就是，你快逃远些吧！
"Some teeth chattering, way:" it is ... ... Is is...... " Xiang Yang smiled: "you are afraid of, or are you run farther!

」说着放开了他，
那儒生双脚发软，一时不能移动，呆了一呆，才大叫而逃。
"Then released him, that Confucian scholars ' feet are weak, unable to move, stay for only yelled out.

